~GIFT PREFERENCES~
(Though SVE is required, all items from SVE that aren't in the base game will have it listed beside them)
(Everything not listed is their default universal gift taste)

LOVED GIFTS:
Coffee
Triple Shot Espressos
Salmonberries
Spice Berries
Blackberries
Bearberries [Stardew Valley Expanded]
Raspberries [Cornucopia - More Crops]
Juniper Berries [Cornucopia - More Crops]
Beer
Pale Ale
Crocuses
Ghost Crystals
Obsidian
Blackberry Cobblers
Baked Berry Oatmeal [Stardew Valley Expanded]
Mixed Berry Pies [Stardew Valley Expanded]
Mushroom Berry Rice [Stardew Valley Expanded]

LIKED GIFTS:
Wine
Mead
Ancient Swords
Rusty Blades [Stardew Valley Expanded]
Bone Flutes
Blueberries
Cranberries
Strawberries
Sweet Gem Berries
Salal Berries [Stardew Valley Expanded]
Poppies
Grapes
Coffee Beans
Duck Feathers
Rabbit's Feet
Ancient Fruits
Bixite
Neptunite
Thunder Eggs
Celestine
Fairy Stones
Prehistoric Scapulas
Prehistoric Tibias
Prehistoric Skulls
Skeletal Hands
Prehistoric Ribs
Prehistoric Vertebrae
Skeletal Tails
Fairy Roses
Solar Essence
Void Essence
Combat Quarterly
Monster Compendium
Mapping Cave Systems
Treasure Appraisal Guide
Blue Moon Wine [Stardew Valley Expanded]
Aged Blue Moon Wine [Stardew Valley Expanded]
Red Baneberries [Stardew Valley Expanded]
Poison Mushrooms [Stardew Valley Expanded]
Monster Fruits [Stardew Valley Expanded]
Void Pebbles [Stardew Valley Expanded]
Void Shards [Stardew Valley Expanded]
Void Souls [Stardew Valley Expanded]

DISLIKED GIFTS:
Vegetables (excluding leafy vegetables- which are listed in the "hated gifts" section)
Sap
Vegetable Medly
Bean Hotpots
Eggplant Parmesan
Autumn's Bounty
Juice
Bat Wings
Roe
Ginger

HATED GIFTS:
Kale
Red Cabbage
Bok Choy
Amaranth
Salmon Dinner
Red Plate
Super Meals
Pickles
Mayonnaise
Duck Mayonnaise
Void Mayonnaise
Battery Packs

NEUTRAL GIFTS:
Stir Fry
Fish Tacos
Coleslaw
Cave Carrots
Arrowheads
Ancient Dolls
Ancient Drums
Ghostfish
Midnight Carps
Artifact Troves
Void Eggs
Sea Urchins
Truffle Oil
Caviar
Aged Roe
Bug Meat
Void Salmon
Midnight Squid
Spook Fish
Dragon Teeth
Slime Berries [Stardew Valley Expanded]






~HEART EVENTS + EXTRA EVENTS~
(Events that have changes in requirements depending on if you have SVE or are married to him have the alternate requirements written down)
(Easter egg event requirements not included)

2 HEARTS:
Location: Railroad (with SVE) / Town (without SVE)
Time: 9:00 PM - 1:30 AM (with SVE) / 8:00 PM - 12:00 AM (without SVE)

4 HEARTS:
Location: Faust's House

5 HEARTS:
Location: Mines
Weather: Rainy

6 HEARTS:
Location: Saloon
Time: 12:00 PM - 4:00 PM
You MUST have seen his 5 Heart Event for the event to trigger

8 HEARTS - FIRST HALF:
Location: Railroad
Time: 8:00 AM - 6:00 PM
You MUST have seen his 6 Heart Event for the event to trigger
-
8 HEARTS - SECOND HALF:
Location: Town
Time: Same as first half
You MUST have seen the first half of his 8 Heart Event for the event to trigger (obviously)
(It is intended that you view the second half on the same day as the first half, but you can trigger it any day, which will ruin the storytelling or whatever but oh well I can't do anything about it)

10 HEARTS:
Location: Shearwater Bridge (with SVE) / Cindersap Forest (without SVE)
Time: 7:00 PM - 12:00 AM
Read the invite letter
(The letter requirements are:
10 hearts
and that's it)

FRIEND EVENT 1:
Location: Beach
Weather: Sunny
Elliott Friendship: 2 Hearts
Elliott MUST be present in the location for the event to trigger
You MUST have seen the second half of his 8 Heart Event for the event to trigger

ANNIVERSARY EVENT:
Location: Railroad (with SVE) / Town (without SVE)
Season: Winter
Day of the month: 12
Faust MUST be present in the location for the event to trigger (if not married) / 10:00 PM - 2:00 AM (if married)
You MUST have seen his 5 Heart Event






~SCHEDULE~
(This does not contain the slight alterations in his schedule when changing his house location, or his schedule when not using SVE)
(Also it takes him like roughly 2 hours to go from his house to town and vice versa, so keep that in mind)
(Listed in order of lowest priority to highest (i.e, if it's raining on a Friday, the rain schedule is used) because that's how the game works)

SPRING:
8:00 AM - Leaves home to go to the town cemetary
1:00 PM - Begins trek back to the railroad to stand in the Adventurer's cemetary
7:00 PM - Goes into his house
12:00 AM - Attempts to sleep

SUMMER:
10:00 AM - Leaves house and stands idle near it
12:00 PM - Goes to people-watch from the cliff next to the stairs by Pierre's store
6:00 PM - Starts walking back to stand in the Adventurer's cememtary
1:00 AM - Attempts to sleep

FALL:
9:00 AM - Departs to stand by the waterfall in town
12:00 PM - Goes to the town cemetary
4:00 PM - Begins walking back to stand in the Adventurer's cemetary
12:00 PM - Attempts to sleep

WINTER:
9:00 AM - Exits home to stand by the mines (original location) near the water
11:00 AM - Leaves to go stand in the town cemetary
3:00 PM - Begin walk back to the railroad but stops by the stairs
7:00 PM - Stands in the Adventurer's cemetary
1:00 AM - Attempts to sleep

TUE:
8:00 AM - Goes outside to stand in the Adventurer's cemetary
10:00 AM - Moves to stare at a different grave
1:30 PM - Stands on the train platform
3:00 PM - Begins trek to the saloon
11:30 PM - Begins walking back home and attempts to sleep upon arrival

THU (ONLY after seeing the second half of his 8 Heart Event):
7:00 AM - Begins walking to town to go to the library
2:00 PM - Returns to the Adventurer's cemetary
11:00 PM - Goes into his house
1:00 AM - Attempts to sleep

FRI:
7:30 AM - Leaves home to go shop at Pierre's
12:00 PM - Moves to the town cemetary
5:00 PM - Heads to the saloon (This will change to 6 PM after seeing the second half of his 8 Heart Event)
11:30 PM - Begins walking back home and attempts to sleep upon arrival

SUN:
8:00 AM - Heads to the shrine of Yoba in Pierre's house
2:30 PM - Leaves the shrine and goes to the town cemetary
6:30 PM - Starts walking home
1:00 AM - Attempts to sleep

RAIN:
5:00 PM - Exits house and stands in the rain
8:00 PM - Visits his mother's grave
1:00 AM - Attempts to sleep

MARRIAGE FRI:
7:00 AM - Leaves farmhouse to stand in the Adventurer's cemetary
12:00 PM - Departs to go stand in the town cemetary
6:00 PM - Heads to the saloon
10:30 PM - Returns home and attempts to sleep

GREEN RAIN (Only happens on year 1):
Stands in the saloon all day






~MISC~
(Extra stuff- like references, little fun facts, etc- cause I like yapping)

- No, Faust's name was not intentionally a reference to Goethe's Faust, but the crow on his spouse patio being named Mephistopheles is

- Faust's dislike of vegetables extends to cooked dishes. Dishes with one vegetable remain their default gift taste. Dishes with one vegetable he hates are bumped down to neutral. Dishes with 2 or more vegetables are disliked. Dishes with a hated vegetable and at least one other vegetable are hated.

- Despite not being able to go further below hated, Salmon Dinner is his least favorite food because it has two vegetables he hates in it

- On the topic of food preferences, Mushroom Berry Rice is his favorite

- He has unique dialogue when receive any beer or ale, wine or mead, Blue Moon Wine (+ Aged), berries obtained from foraging, berries obtained from farming, Mushroom Berry Rice, red baneberries or poison mushrooms, coffee, ghost crystals, old swords (ancient swords and rusty blades), solar or void essence, slime berries, and Salmon Dinner

- Intially, I wanted him to dress as the Grim Reaper on Spirit's Eve, but Harvey already took that. Second choice was a vampire, but Sebastian already has that costume. So what was the next best choice? Obviously John Bloodborne from the hit game Bloodborne. That totally fits his character.

- Faust ended up being WAY more relatable to me than I intially intended but oh well

- Faust is actually omnisexual

- Related to this, Faust being attracted to Elliott was not a spontaneous decision

- The real reason why Faust only likes berries that grow from seeds is because he already has more than enough loved gifts

- His sprites are made using Sebastian's sprites from Seasonal Cute Characters as a reference

- All of his events are labeled with names because I just do that

- His saloon dialogue works the same way as his marriage dialogue- it has multiple options lumped together, and picks one at random

- Speaking of his saloon dialogue, there's 20 (5 for less than 4 hearts, 5 for 4-7 hearts, 5 for 8 hearts, 2 for dating that replace the first two of his 8 heart options, and 3 that replace the last three of his 8 heart options on Fridays after viewing the second half of his 8 Heart Event (These should only change if you have under six hearts with Elliott or Leah, since those cause Elliott to not show up at the saloon anymore)(If you're dating Faust, only two of them will be replaced)

- After seeing the second half of his 8 Heart Event, both he and Elliott will have conversation topics one week, two weeks, and four weeks after you've seen it

- Faust comments on the player dating and marry Elliott if you've seen the second half of his 8 Heart Event. Related to this, Elliott will also have dialogue after you start dating him that relates to Faust.

- The text when interacting with the small flower vase in his house and his mother's grave changes after you see his 5 Heart Event

- The name of Faust's mother- Libitina- is the name of the Roman goddess of funerals. Lorewise, it is a coincidence.

- The fact that his pre-1.0.0 portraits didn't have earrings is because I genuinely just forgot I wanted to add them, and by time I remembered he'd already been out for a while, so I felt like I shouldn't. Then I remembered I can do whatever I want with him because I made him. + they make some of his outfits look a little less boring imo

- Originally, Faust had red eyes, but my friend said they made him look similar to Gallagher from HSR, so I came up with alternatives and had him pick which one looked best. There was purple (which is the final product), kind-of-depressed blue, slightly-yellowish green, and brown

- Gonna be honest, when I was creating his portraits, I didn't even have a name or lore for him. I just had a general idea of what I wanted his personality to be like. I started coming up with his lore as I was making him.

- He was raised in devotion to Yoba, but has always been skeptical. He only continues to cling to the faith because he feels it is what his mother would want

- He refers to all people older than him that he respects as 'Sir' or 'Lady' (which is why he does no do so with Pierre), but drops the formalities with friends

- Does he actually believe in ghosts, or does he just act like he does to be dramatic? Only Faust knows.

- I have three voice claims for him that I can't decide between because none of them sound 100% right (Jason Dean played by Ryan McCartan, Jason Dean again played by Jamie Muscato (except less British and unhinged), Will Stetson) (My friend said Aleks Le)

- I feel like Faust would make a good yandere or something similar considering his personality

- I wonder if anyone actually reads this far into the file

- Faust also exists as a HSR OC now because I missed him so much





~LORE~
(Like 96% of his lore can be learned through his Heart Events, but since Argenti has a lore section in his Spoilers.txt, Faust needs one too)

Faust's parents moved to Pelican Town after their marriage, and lived there for years before he was born. His mother had always been a part of the Adventurer's Guild and spent a lot of time away from the house- something his father grew to dislike more and more as time went on. They had always had a good relationship, and Faust was raised in a happy household.. for a while.
Eventually, years of built up anxiety on his father's end exploded into a heated fight. His father begged his wife to abandon the Adventurer's Guild, but her refusal led to the argument lasting all night, causing Faust to be unable to sleep. A healthy marriage was destroyed in one night because of fears that had been left unaddressed.
The following morning, his father took Faust and left town to settle in Zuzu City, where he planned to wait until his wife returned to him, begging for forgiveness. But that never happened. She remained in Pelican Town, waiting for her family to come back to her. Meanwhile, the sadness that came with realizing he'd ruined the best thing that ever happened to him caused Faust's father to grow resentful. He'd already struggled with drinking, but the problem gradually spiraled out of control, and his rage did as well. Faust was subjected to his father's wrath, being beaten for the smallest of reasons. The smallest mistakes and disappointments would bring him suffering, and whenever he reminded his father of his mother, his beatings would be more painful. The words his father would say to him took a great toll on the young boy's mental state, with it worsening as years passed.
Faust grew to despise the father that he once loved dearly, and the two would lash out at each other once he was only enough to hold his own. Having grown up witnessing his father drinking to dull his pain, it was the only coping mechanism he knew, so he turned to it as well- despite how disgusting it made him feel. He longed to escape his home and return to his mother in that small town he recalled so fondly, but a small, foolish part of him prayed that his father would come to his senses and get help.
Those hopes were squashed following a brutal fight between them, and he'd had enough. Faust stole money from his father to afford a bus trip back to Pelican Town in the middle of the night. He was eager to see his mother again for the first time in years, but when he returned to their old house, he found it abandoned, with furniture covered in dust and food that had long since rotted. There was a letter addressed to him waiting on the table, but he refused to believe its contents. When he inquired about his mother's whereabouts to Marlon, he was brought to the Adventurer's cemetery and led to her grave. According to Marlon, she had been dead for years.
Everything he once cherished was gone. His father was a different man than he once was. His mother rested beneath the soil. He had no money and nowhere to go, leaving him stranded in a place that was no longer his home. Despair consumed him for a fortnight, and he did nothing but weep, drink, and look over the edge of Shearwater Bridge, contemplating why he should keep going. But he couldn't bring himself to end it. What would his mother think?
Marlon watched his suffering from a distance before approaching him. In hope of easing the young man's plight, he offered him pay to watch over the graveyard where his mother slept. It wasn't much, as it was an easy job, but it was better than nothing. Faust took the job, and soon even began tending to the graveyard in town of his own accord. If he does not keep the souls of the departed company, nobody else will- that's what he tells himself, at least. It has helped him find more reason to continue, but he still cannot find purpose.
He's spent the last few years living this monotonous life, refusing to interact with people he doesn't need to out of fear. After all, if he can see no good in himself, who else would?